So in the last lectures, we added the functionality to send push messages and it seems to work but we
can't tell for sure because we're not listening to it.
So in our service worker file,
let's start listening to it
and why in the service worker? Well for the same reason I mentioned earlier in this module. The service
worker is always running in the background, at least on some devices
and we want to react to push messages when we don't have a web page open.
So the service worker is the place where we want to listen to push messages and it's therefore the
only place where we can listen to them.
So at the bottom of this file maybe here, I'll add a new event listener with self add event listener
and I will listen to a push event.
Now here I will execute this function whenever it occurs and this will occur whenever we get an incoming
push message.
When do we get an incoming push message?
Well if this service worker on this browser on this device has a subscription to which this push message
was sent, each subscription is stored on the server and has its own endpoint
and therefore if we send a push message from the server to that subscription, this service worker who created
that subscription will receive it,
that's the reason why if you unregister a service worker, you won't get it
and the old subscription is worthless because your eventually newly created service worker will generate
different subscriptions.
Therefore since we generated a subscription with this service worker, this should work.
So we have our push event listener and now first of all,
I will log push notification received, to immediately see if this works or not and I can output the event
here too. As a next step, I want to retrieve any data we send with that push notification.
If we inspect the push notification code on index.js, this is the payload we send with the push notification,
this stringified Javascript object with title and content
and of course you can set up whichever properties you want here. I want to retrieve that and I can simply
retrieve this in the service worker, though the first thing I have to do is I have to check if our
event data object exists,
so if we do have some data attached to that event. If we do, we know we can extract it,
so I will set up a variable data and I'll set it to a dummy object first which I'll use as a fallback
in case I don't get new data by the push notification.
There I'll set a title of new and I deliberately don't use the same values as on the server so that we
can clearly tell if we're getting this dummy object or our real server data and I'll set a content of
something new happened.
Now in reality, you want to use something here which you could validly use as a fallback to show at least
some meaningful message.
Now here in the event data, I'll now extract the data in case we got it and then reassign it to this
variable and I do this by calling JSON parse because we get a string and we want to convert it into a
Javascript object again, on event data, though this alone won't work,
we need to call the text helper method which would just retrieve the text, so the string from the data
and since we passed JSON which is a string in the end,
this works and then we parse it to store a real Javascript object inside data.
Now we can use that data and we can use it to show a new notification,
we can do that from inside the service worker too.
Previously we did it from our normal Javascript code, though by reaching out to the service worker, by
getting access to it here, now we can do it straight from inside.
So first of all, I'll set up some options for the notification
and here you can use the same options you used before, image and so on. I'll set the body first and I'll refer
to data content.
Now content is correct here because keep in mind here, we got content here sent back from the server
as well as title. So I can access on the retrieve data,
I also want to display an icon and here I'll again hardcode my own icon, images
icons, app icon
96x96.png and the cool thing is of course you could theoretically also send a URL
as part of your payload. Now the payload is limited to 4kb, at least at the point of time I'm recording
this,
so you can't send an image with it but a link to image is OK,
just don't send whole essays but always keep in mind a push notification
most of the time should fit in a normal notification anyways. So just the title, a short content and a
link to an image probably is all you need most of the time.
So here I'm only setting title and content though,
that's why I hardcode an image in here, my default app icon, I'll also set a batch to that same icon to get my
own batch in the toolbar and that's it for now.
Now to display this, I have to call event,
wait until to make sure the service worker waits for me to really show this notification and then I
get access to the service worker,
however the active service worker itself can't show the notification,
it's there to listen to events it's running in the background.
That's why we have to get access to the registration of the service worker, that is the part running in the
browser
so to say,
so it's the part which connects the service worker to the browser.
Now on our registration, we can call show notification just as before.
I then want to output the title which I can retrieve from my data of course, since we sent this from
the back-end too and pass my options
and with this set up, we should now see, without a semicolon,
we should now see a real message coming in
whenever I create a new post and for that let's head back and since we updated the service worker, we
have to update it here too.
Now for the same reason as mentioned before,
don't clear your site data,
you would unregister the service worker and hence render your subscription useless.
Simply update it old school by refreshing the page to install the new service worker and then to activate
it,
close your page and open a new tab
and now you've got the updated service worker registered without replacing it,
so without rendering the old subscriptions useless. Now let's simply create a new post and hope that we
get a notification due to our post message.
So do we get a notification
is the question here,
maybe even without a typo
and this is from Munich.
So let's click post and let's see if something happens.
I do get a notification here and as you can see, new post, a new post added clearly indicates that this
is coming from the server because our fallback would be just new and something new happened,
so a different text.
So this is working fine,
we're now receiving this push notification from the server,
let's now also see it on a real device
and since I will then create a new subscription there obviously because new browser on different
device, different service worker, you will see that if I create a post on any of the two devices, I will get
push messages on both.
Let's see this in action in the next lecture.